Add Flotiq and Astro integration guide (#9798)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/cms/flotiq.mdx

```astro title="src/pages/posts/[slug].astro" ins={24-30}
---
import type { Blogpost } from "flotiq-api-ts";
import { flotiq } from "../../lib/flotiq";

const { slug } = Astro.params;
let post: Blogpost;

const blogpostList = await flotiq.BlogPostAPI.list({
  filters: JSON.stringify({
    slug: {
      type: 'equals',
      filter: slug,
    }
  }),
  limit: 1
});

if (blogpostList.data?.[0]) {
  post = blogpostList.data[0]
} else {
  return Astro.redirect('/404');
}
---
<html lang="en">
  <title>{post.title}</title>
  <body>
    <h1>{post.title}</h1>
    <div set:html={post.content}/>
  </body>
</html>
```

Go to `http://localhost:4321` and click on the selected post. You should see the individual post's page.

### Refreshing the SDK After Content Type Changes

When using the Flotiq TypeScript SDK (`flotiq-api-ts`), all your data types are accurately mapped into the Astro project.

If you make changes to the structure of your content types (such as adding a new field or modifying an existing one), you’ll need to refresh the SDK to ensure that your project reflects the latest model updates.

To do this, simply rerun the following command:

```bash
yarn add flotiq-api-ts

> ```

Author: I have prepared an updated version; for pnpm, in this case, it's better to use `rebuild`. I’ve included this for Yarn, pnpm, and npm. Please check if this works for you.

  filters: JSON.stringify({
    slug: {
      type: 'equals',
      filter: slug,
    }
  }),
  limit: 1
});

if (blogpostList.data?.[0]) {
  post = blogpostList.data[0]
} else {
  return Astro.redirect('/404');
}
---
<html lang="en">
  <title>{post.title}</title>
  <body>
    <h1>{post.title}</h1>
    <div set:html={post.content}/>
  </body>
</html>
```

Now when you visit `http://localhost:4321` and click on a blog post, you will be able to navigate to the individual post's page.

### Refreshing the SDK After Content Type Changes

When using the Flotiq TypeScript SDK (`flotiq-api-ts`), all your data types are accurately mapped into the Astro project.

If you make changes to the structure of your content types (such as adding a new field or modifying an existing one), you’ll need to refresh the SDK to ensure that your project reflects the latest model updates.

To do this, run the rebuild command for your package manager:

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
    ```sh
    npm rebuild flotiq-api-ts
    ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
    ```sh
    pnpm rebuild flotiq-api-ts
    ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
    ```sh

>     yarn add flotiq-api-ts

Reviewer: shouldn't this be rebuild? or am i missing something

```suggestion
    yarn rebuild flotiq-api-ts
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion! The proposed `yarn add` works and rebuilds the package each time (which is what we expect), but this applies specifically to yarn v1. In yarn v4, the appropriate command for this is `yarn rebuild`.

I suggest updating the line to `yarn rebuild flotiq-api-ts` (as you suggested) and optionally adding a note:
"If you are using yarn v1 (Classic), run `yarn add flotiq-api-ts` to rebuild the SDK."

Reviewer: Yes, it can be done! Perhaps let's get another opinion on this, but what you proposed works for me. It will help avoid confusion for the end user who sees one method for all the other package managers and a different one for Yarn.

#### Server-Side Rendering

If you are using [SSR](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/) mode, you will need to fetch a single post based on its `slug`.

Create a new file `[slug].astro` in the `/src/pages/posts/` directory. Fetch the post by its `slug` field:

```astro title="src/pages/posts/[slug].astro"
---
import type { Blogpost } from "flotiq-api-ts";
import { flotiq } from "../../lib/flotiq";

const { slug } = Astro.params;
let post: Blogpost;

const blogpostList = await flotiq.BlogpostAPI.list({
  filters: JSON.stringify({
    slug: {
      type: 'equals',
      filter: slug,
    }
  }),
  limit: 1
});

if (blogpostList.data?.[0]) {
  post = blogpostList.data[0]
} else {
  return Astro.redirect('/404');
}
---
```

Next, add the logic to display a single post:

```astro title="src/pages/posts/[slug].astro" ins={24-30}
---
import type { Blogpost } from "flotiq-api-ts";
import { flotiq } from "../../lib/flotiq";

const { slug } = Astro.params;
let post: Blogpost;

const blogpostList = await flotiq.BlogpostAPI.list({
  filters: JSON.stringify({
    slug: {
      type: 'equals',
      filter: slug,
    }
  }),
  limit: 1
});

> 
> if (blogpostList.data?.[0]) {
>   post = blogpostList.data[0]
> } else {
>   return Astro.redirect('/404');
> }
> ---
> <html lang="en">
>   <title>{post.title}</title>
>   <body>
>     <h1>{post.title}</h1>
>     <div set:html={post.content}/>
>   </body>
> </html>
> ```
> 
> Go to `http://localhost:4321` and click on the selected post. You should see the individual post's page.
> 
> ### Refreshing the SDK After Content Type Changes
> 
> When using the Flotiq TypeScript SDK (`flotiq-api-ts`), all your data types are accurately mapped into the Astro project.
> 
> If you make changes to the structure of your content types (such as adding a new field or modifying an existing one), you’ll need to refresh the SDK to ensure that your project reflects the latest model updates.
> 
> To do this, simply rerun the following command:
> 
> <PackageManagerTabs>
>   <Fragment slot="npm">
>     ```sh
>     npm rebuild flotiq-api-ts
>     ```
>   </Fragment>
>   <Fragment slot="pnpm">
>     ```sh
>     pnpm rebuild flotiq-api-ts
>     ```
>   </Fragment>
>   <Fragment slot="yarn">
>     ```sh
>     yarn add flotiq-api-ts
>     ```
>   </Fragment>
> </PackageManagerTabs>
> 
> This will update the SDK, aligning object types, fields, and API methods with your current data model.
> 
> 
> ## Publishing Your Site
> 
> To deploy your website, visit Astro's [deployment guides](/en/guides/deploy/) and follow the instructions for your preferred hosting provider.
> 
> ### Rebuild on Flotiq Changes
> 
> If you're using Static Site Generation (SSG) mode (the default in Astro), the typical approach is to send a webhook from your Headless CMS to the hosting provider to trigger a rebuild.
> 
> In Flotiq, simply add a new Webhook, define which Content Type and events it should trigger on, and configure it accordingly. You can find more information in the [Flotiq Webhooks documentation](https://flotiq.com/docs/panel/webhooks/async-co-webhook/).
> 
> ## Official Resources
> 
> - See the [Flotiq documentation](https://flotiq.com/docs)

Reviewer 2: ``````suggestion
---
title: Flotiq & Astro
description: Add content to your Astro project using Flotiq as a CMS
type: cms
service: Flotiq
i18nReady: true
---

import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro';

[Flotiq](https://flotiq.com) is a headless CMS designed for various frontends, such as static sites, mobile, and web applications. Developers and content creators manage and deliver content through REST and GraphQL-based APIs.

## Integrating with Astro

This guide will use the Flotiq headless CMS API with an Astro project to display content on your website.

### Prerequisites

To get started, you will need:

1. **An Astro project** - You can create a new project using the `npm create astro@latest` command.
2. **A Flotiq account** - If you don't have an account, [sign up for free](https://editor.flotiq.com/register).
3. **Flotiq read-only API key** - Find out [how to obtain your key](https://flotiq.com/docs/API/).

### Setting up the Environment variables

Add the read-only API key from your Flotiq account to the `.env` file in the root of your Astro project:

```ini title=".env"
FLOTIQ_API_KEY=__YOUR_FLOTIQ_API_KEY__
```

### Defining a Content Type in Flotiq

First, you need to define example [Content Type Definition](https://flotiq.com/docs/panel/content-types/) in Flotiq to store data.

Log in to your Flotiq account and create a custom Content Type Definition with the following example `Blog Post` configuration:
- **Label**: Blog Post
- **API Name**: blogpost
- **Fields**:
  - **Title**: text, required
  - **Slug**: text, required
  - **Content**: rich text, required

Then, create one or more example [Content Objects](https://flotiq.com/docs/panel/content-objects/) using this `Blog Post` type.

### Installing the Flotiq TypeScript SDK

To connect your project with Flotiq, install the [Flotiq SDK](https://github.com/flotiq/flotiq-api-ts) using the package manager of your choice:

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
    ```sh
    npm install flotiq-api-ts
    ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
    ```sh
    pnpm add flotiq-api-ts
    ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
    ```sh
    yarn add flotiq-api-ts
    ```
  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

Next, configure the SDK using your credentials. Create a new file named `flotiq.ts` inside the `src/lib` directory of your project:

```ts title="src/lib/flotiq.ts"
import { FlotiqApi } from "flotiq-api-ts";

export const flotiq = new FlotiqApi(import.meta.env.FLOTIQ_API_KEY);
```

This configuration can now be used throughout your project.

### Fetching and Displaying Data from Flotiq

First, fetch the `Blog Post` data on an Astro page using your content's custom API `BlogpostAPI`:

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import { flotiq } from "../lib/flotiq";

const posts = await flotiq.BlogpostAPI.list();
---
```

Then, display the content in your Astro template. You will have access to the `title`, `slug`, and `content` of your posts as well as other `internal` post data:

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro" ins={6-21}
---
import { flotiq } from "../lib/flotiq";

const posts = await flotiq.BlogpostAPI.list();
---
<html lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Astro</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		{posts.data?.map((post) => (
			<section>
				<a href={`/posts/${post.slug}`}>
				  <h2>{post.title}</h2>
        </a>
				<div>{post.internal?.createdAt}</div>
				<div set:html={post.content}/>
			</section>
		))}
	</body>
</html>
```
Start the dev server and visit your page preview at `http://localhost:4321` to see the list of your blog posts. Each post will link to a page that does not yet exist. These will be created in the next step.

### Generating Individual Pages

Astro supports both prerendering all your pages ahead of time, or creating routes on demand when they are requested. Follow the instructions for either [static site generation](#static-site-generation) or [on-demand rendering](#on-demand-rendering) to build the page routes for your blog posts.

#### Static Site Generation

In static site generation (SSG) mode, use the `getStaticPaths()` method to fetch all possible blog post paths from Flotiq.

Create a new file `[slug].astro` in the `/src/pages/posts/` directory. Fetch all blog posts and return them within the `getStaticPaths()` method:

```astro title="src/pages/posts/[slug].astro" 
---
import type { Blogpost } from "flotiq-api-ts";
import { flotiq } from "../../lib/flotiq";

export async function getStaticPaths() {
  const posts = await flotiq.BlogpostAPI.list();
  return posts.data?.map((post) => ({
    params: { slug: post.slug },
    props: post
  })) || []
}
---
```

Next, add the templating to display an individual post:

```astro title="src/pages/posts/[slug].astro" ins={12-20}
---
import type { Blogpost } from "flotiq-api-ts";
import { flotiq } from "../../lib/flotiq";

export async function getStaticPaths() {
  const posts = await flotiq.BlogpostAPI.list();
  return posts.data?.map((post) => ({
    params: { slug: post.slug },
    props: post
  })) || []
}
const post: Blogpost = Astro.props;
---
<html lang="en">
  <title>{post.title}</title>
  <body>
    <h1>{post.title}</h1>
    <div set:html={post.content}/>
  </body>
</html>
```

Now when you visit `http://localhost:4321` and click on a blog post, you will be able to navigate to the individual post's page.

#### On-demand Rendering

If you are using [SSR](/en/guides/server-side-rendering/) mode, you will need to fetch a single post based on its `slug`.

Create a new file `[slug].astro` in the `/src/pages/posts/` directory. Fetch the post by its `slug` field, including logic to display a 404 page when the route is not found:

```astro title="src/pages/posts/[slug].astro"
---
import type { Blogpost } from "flotiq-api-ts";
import { flotiq } from "../../lib/flotiq";

const { slug } = Astro.params;
let post: Blogpost;

const blogpostList = await flotiq.BlogpostAPI.list({
  filters: JSON.stringify({
    slug: {
      type: 'equals',
      filter: slug,
    }
  }),
  limit: 1
});

if (blogpostList.data?.[0]) {
  post = blogpostList.data[0]
} else {
  return Astro.redirect('/404');
}
---
```

Next, add the templating to display an individual post:

```astro title="src/pages/posts/[slug].astro" ins={24-30}
---
import type { Blogpost } from "flotiq-api-ts";
import { flotiq } from "../../lib/flotiq";

const { slug } = Astro.params;
let post: Blogpost;

const blogpostList = await flotiq.BlogpostAPI.list({
  filters: JSON.stringify({
    slug: {
      type: 'equals',
      filter: slug,
    }
  }),
  limit: 1
});

if (blogpostList.data?.[0]) {
  post = blogpostList.data[0]
} else {
  return Astro.redirect('/404');
}
---
<html lang="en">
  <title>{post.title}</title>
  <body>
    <h1>{post.title}</h1>
    <div set:html={post.content}/>
  </body>
</html>
```

Now when you visit `http://localhost:4321` and click on a blog post, you will be able to navigate to the individual post's page.

### Refreshing the SDK After Content Type Changes

When using the Flotiq TypeScript SDK (`flotiq-api-ts`), all your data types are accurately mapped into the Astro project.

If you make changes to the structure of your content types (such as adding a new field or modifying an existing one), you’ll need to refresh the SDK to ensure that your project reflects the latest model updates.

To do this, run the rebuild command for your package manager:

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
    ```sh
    npm rebuild flotiq-api-ts
    ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
    ```sh
    pnpm rebuild flotiq-api-ts
    ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
    ```sh
    yarn add flotiq-api-ts
    ```
  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

This will update the SDK, aligning object types, fields, and API methods with your current data model.

## Publishing Your Site

To deploy your website, visit Astro's [deployment guides](/en/guides/deploy/) and follow the instructions for your preferred hosting provider.

### Redeploy on Flotiq Changes

To update your published site, configure Flotiq to send a webhook your hosting provider to trigger a rebuild whenever your content changes.

In Flotiq, you can define which Content Type and events it should trigger on, and configure it accordingly. See the [Flotiq Webhooks documentation](https://flotiq.com/docs/panel/webhooks/async-co-webhook/) for more details.

## Official Resources

- [Flotiq documentation](https://flotiq.com/docs)
``````
